#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
PS 139 Notes
\end_layout

\begin_layout Part*
Tuesday, January 5
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Groups of 3 or 4
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are two books, so he wants us to get them because he gets paid ~30
 cents per book we buy ...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
origin of the course.
 used to be two courses about voter fraud and stuff
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
ordeshok ended up doing work in ukraine and russia.
 got to use ukraine as a labratory in 2004
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
two candidates for presidential election.
 if >50% you win, otherwise runoff.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
had dinner with putin's vote manipulator mastermind in ukraine.
 he didn't want to tip his hand by having fraud on the first round, but
 lots of things were fishy in second election.
 >100% turnout, 100% for putin's candidate etc.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
scandanavia refuses to recognize the election.
 same with canada.
 eventually US also refuses to recognize.
 eventually there is a re-runoff to fix the problems.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
young people went to become election monitors.
 from US and stuff.
 putin abandoned his candidate because too much fraud attached to him now.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
only thing that changed from october to november was ability to commit fraud
 and desire to do so.
 so now we can develop statistical tools to take a look at this.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
simmilar great experiments in russia.
 we know which areas are likely to not vote for putin so ...
 (ie putin wants them dead and they vote for him?) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
in the background we also have the 2000 election -- specifically Florida.
 very very little fraud in the united states.
 one because very little fraud and two because politicians have been doing
 fraud in US for 200 years so they're getting good.
 and sometimes dont need fraud (make the lines longer by making fewer polling
 places) (decentralized election process.
 so can register to vote in multiple states would be hard to track.
 counties would have problems finding out that you cheated them because
 they are usually poorly run)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
the other reason for this class also came from russian work in the 90s.
 tech got a russian guy to teach russian politics.
 ordeshok gets invited to moscow to talk about constitutional design.
 russians thought about it legalitically, and he wanted to use game theoretic
 stuff.
 how do you incentivize things that you want to happen? ordeshok wants to
 make it federalist.
 russians dont know how to do to, and claims probably no one does.
 has anyone studied it yet? federal and decentralized systems are different.
 if you decentralize poorly there's chaos.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
project has to be in on time this year.
 too many I/E's last year
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Look at the elcetion laws in the country.
 sometimes its weird.
 in South Africa they typically have >100% turnout because absentee ballots
 are counted where you are not where you got them from.
 In Taiwan there's some weird stuff as well.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
we expect homogineity.
 and then look for differences.
 look at things that should affect the data -- socieo economic factors,
 millitary etc.
 want to control for the non-homogeneity, so the remainder is fraud.
 we might want to look at czech cities.
 need that to avoid misinterpretting data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Stalin Doctrine -- stalin killed people in the 30s and 40s.
 Would issue edicts of how many people were to be killed.
 he'd delegate this to political bosses.
 they knew that all bosses eventually got killed.
 they want to support stalin super hard so they don't die.
 so they become 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

enthusiastic,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 workers, so political elite race to kill more people than their fellows.
 exceeded quotas by 3-4x
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
putin appointed regional government rather than elected, much like stalin.
 thus they compete to steal more votes for putin in the next election.
 just like before but now with vots and not bodies.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Illinios were releasing returns slowly in the 60s because both groups are
 trying to fraud each other.
 they slowly release returns to figure out how much they need to fraud.
 can't steal 5% in the US, can only steal about 1%, so they need to figure
 out how close the vote is, so can we steal the election? so it would take
 forever for the results to come in.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
more like prosecuting attorney than a dectetive.
 heory of the crime and then look for evidence that backs you up.
 you know there is a defense attorney that is trying to explain the data
 differently or using different data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Next week, we sign up for groups and countries and stuff
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
we also have to present at the end of term.
 10 min presentations.
 so we want to go at the beginning because the expectation is lower for
 peopel going in the beginning.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
